added pipenv under tech/languages/python. (#353)
developer-portal/content: tech/languages/python/pipenv.md

---
title: Pipenv
subsection: python
order: 11
---

# Pipenv

As the official documentation of `pipenv` says.

    Pipenv is a tool that aims to bring the best of all packaging worlds (bundler,
    composer, npm, cargo, yarn, etc.) to the Python world.

    It automatically creates and manages a virtualenv for your projects, as well as
    adds/removes packages from your Pipfile as you install/uninstall packages. It
    also generates the ever-important Pipfile.lock, which is used to produce
    deterministic builds.

Here we will see

- How to install `pipenv` on fedora?
- How to create a virtual environment with `python3`?
- How to install python packages in the virtual environment?
- How to use the virtual environment?
- How to remove this virtual environment?

## Installation

To install `pipenv` on your machine,

```bash
$ sudo dnf install pipenv
```

> Once it is done, you can use `pipenv` to create, manage and remove python
> environments with different python versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it is done, you can use `pipenv` to create, manage and remove Python
environments with different Python versions.
```

Let's see what all opetions `pipenv` provides.

## Usage

### Creating a virtual environment.

> To create a new virtualenv with a `python3` interpreter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new virtualenv with a `python3` interpreter:
```

```
$ pipenv --python 3
Creating a virtualenv for this project…
Pipfile: /home/fedorauser/pipenv-dir/Pipfile
Using /usr/bin/python3.8 (3.8.2) to create virtualenv…
⠼ Creating virtual environment...Already using interpreter /usr/bin/python3.8
Using base prefix '/usr'
New python executable in /home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2/bin/python3.8
Also creating executable in /home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2/bin/python
Installing setuptools, pip, wheel...
done.
Running virtualenv with interpreter /usr/bin/python3.8

✔ Successfully created virtual environment!
Virtualenv location: /home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2
Creating a Pipfile for this project…
```

> It will create a file called `Pipfile` in your current directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a file called `Pipfile` in your current directory.
```

> You can get the project location using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the project location using:
```

```
$ pipenv --where
/home/fedorauser/pipenv-dir
```

> To get the virtualenv location for this project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the virtualenv location for this project:
```

```
$ pipenv --venv
/home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2
```

> To get the python interpreter location for this `virtualenv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the python interpreter location for this `virtualenv`:
```

```
$ pipenv --py
/home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2/bin/python
```

### Installing packages

Now that we have the virtualenv created, let's install some packages.
It can be done with `pipenv install`.

```
$ pipenv install
Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (db4242)…
  🐍   ▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉ 0/0 — 00:00:00
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
```

This will install packages listed in the `Pipfile`.

> Alternatively you can install packages using the `pipenv` command itself.
> In order to do that you have to run `pipenv install <package-name>`.
> For example let's install [requests](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/) package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can install packages using the `pipenv` command itself.
In order to do that, you can run `pipenv install <package-name>`.
For example, let's install the [requests](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/) package:
```

```
$ pipenv install requests
Installing requests…
Adding requests to Pipfile's [packages]…
✔ Installation Succeeded
Pipfile.lock (db4242) out of date, updating to (fbd99e)…
Locking [dev-packages] dependencies…
Locking [packages] dependencies…
Building requirements...
Resolving dependencies...
✔ Success!
Updated Pipfile.lock (fbd99e)!
Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (fbd99e)…
  🐍   ▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉ 0/0 — 00:00:00
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
```

> You can also install the packages for specific environment also.
> For example, you will need [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/)
> and [black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) in the developement
> environment. So in order to install `black` in dev envitonment. Also you can
> specify the version of that package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also install the packages for a specific environment.
For example, you might need [black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
of a specific version in your developement environment. To install it, run:
```

```
$ pipenv install --dev black=="20.8b0"
Installing black==20.8b0…
Adding black to Pipfile's [dev-packages]…
✔ Installation Succeeded
Pipfile.lock (fbd99e) out of date, updating to (a289be)…
Locking [dev-packages] dependencies…
Building requirements...
Resolving dependencies...
✔ Success!
Locking [packages] dependencies…
Building requirements...
Resolving dependencies...
✔ Success!
Updated Pipfile.lock (a289be)!
Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (a289be)…
  🐍   ▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉ 0/0 — 00:00:00
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
```

> Now that you have installed `requests`, and `black` in the current environment,
> `pipenv` has added those to your `Pipfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have installed `requests` and `black` in the current environment,
`pipenv` has added those to your `Pipfile`.
```

> If you caeck the contents of `Pipfile` it will be something like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you check the contents of `Pipfile`, it will be something like:
```

```
$cat Pipfile
[[source]]
name = "pypi"
url = "https://pypi.org/simple"
verify_ssl = true

[dev-packages]
black = "==20.8b0"

[packages]
requests = "*"

[requires]
python_version = "3.8"
```

### Using the virtual environment

Till now we have created a virtualenv and installed some packages.
Now let's use it. Let's write a simple python program for it.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python

import requests
import sys

def make_request(url=None):
    if url:
        req = requests.get(url)
        if req:
            print(req.text)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    if len(sys.argv) >= 2:
        make_request(sys.argv[1])
```

> To launch the virtual environment, run `pipenv shell`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch a shell in the virtual environment, run `pipenv shell`:
```

```
$ pipenv shell
Launching subshell in virtual environment…
. /home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2/bin/activate
(pipenv-dir) $
```

> You can run this program from shell by using environment from the shell that
> we launched using `pipenv shell`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the program from this shell:
```

```
(pipenv-dir) $ python http-request.py http://cheat.sh/pipenv
# pipenv
# Simple and unified Python development workflow.
# Manages packages and the virtual environment for a project.
# More information: <https://pypi.org/project/pipenv>.

# Create a new project:
pipenv

# Create a new project using Python 3:
pipenv --three
......
```

You can also run it directly using `pipenv run` without activating the

> shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shell:
```

```
$ pipenv run python http-request.py http://cheat.sh/pipenv
......
```

### Generating dependency list for the project

> To Generate a `requirements.txt` (list of dependencies) for the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a `requirements.txt` file with a list of dependencies for the project, run:
```

```
pipenv lock --requirements
-i https://pypi.org/simple
certifi==2020.6.20
chardet==3.0.4
idna==2.10; python_version >= '2.7' and python_version not in '3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3'
requests==2.24.0
urllib3==1.25.11; python_version >= '2.7' and python_version not in '3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4' and python_version < '4'
```

### Deactivating the virtual environment

> To deactivate the virtual environment the command is `deactivate` or
> you can just `exit` both of them work just fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command to deactivate the virtual environment is `deactivate`. Or
you can just `exit`; both of these work just fine.
```

```
(pipenv-dir) $ deactivate
$
```

### Removing the virtual environment.

Finally, if you want to delete this virtual environment, you can do it

> with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with:
```

---
title: Pipenv
subsection: python
order: 11
---

# Pipenv

Pipenv is a tool that aims to bring the best of all packaging worlds (bundler,
composer, npm, cargo, yarn, etc.) to the Python world.

It automatically creates and manages a virtualenv for your projects, as well as
adds/removes packages from your Pipfile as you install/uninstall packages. It
also generates the ever-important Pipfile.lock, which is used to produce

> deterministic builds.

Author: Will it be a good idea to to put it like
As the official documentation of `pipenv` says.

```text
Pipenv is a tool that aims to bring the best of all packaging worlds (bundler,
composer, npm, cargo, yarn, etc.) to the Python world.

It automatically creates and manages a virtualenv for your projects, as well as
adds/removes packages from your Pipfile as you install/uninstall packages. It
also generates the ever-important Pipfile.lock, which is used to produce
deterministic builds.
```

> deterministic builds.

Reviewer 2: Well, there's still references missing! All relevant websites / documentation etc. should be added at the end.

Anyway, as pipenv is MIT, there's no need to actually cite the text or attribute them. Also it's just two short paragraphs actually with the tool description (which is MIT, thus not belong to anyone), and I they're shipped with the RPM as well.

> deterministic builds.

Reviewer: "not belong to anyone" is incorrect; the MIT licence for pipenv actually says:

> Copyright 2020 Python Packaging Authority
> ...
> The above copyright notice [...] shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

But I'll bet a short quote of the docs is fair use.

> deterministic builds.

Author: I've added the link to the official documentation for `pipenv`.

Installing setuptools, pip, wheel...
done.
Running virtualenv with interpreter /usr/bin/python3.8

✔ Successfully created virtual environment!
Virtualenv location: /home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2
Creating a Pipfile for this project…
```

It will create a file called `Pipfile` in your current directory.

You can get the project location using

```
$ pipenv --where
/home/fedorauser/pipenv-dir
```

To get the virtualenv location for this project

```
$ pipenv --venv
/home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2
```

To get the python interpreter location for this `virtualenv`

```
$ pipenv --py
/home/fedorauser/.local/share/virtualenvs/pipenv-dir-O2-8SZy2/bin/python
```

Now that we have the virtualenv created, let's install some packages.

```
$ pipenv install
Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (db4242)…
  🐍   ▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉▉ 0/0 — 00:00:00
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
```

This will install packages listed in the `Pipfile`.

> Alternatively you can install packages using the `pipenv` command itlsf.

Author: done.

# Create a new project using Python 3:
pipenv --three

> ......

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ . . . ]
```

Maybe?

```

You can also run it directly using `pipenv run` without activating the
shell.

```
$ pipenv run python http-request.py http://cheat.sh/pipenv

> ......

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
......
```

No need for `.....` if there's no output.

Author: Actually here the output is exactly the same as the output of previous command. (As we are running the same script.)
It's kind of redundant, so did not put it there.
